Documentation for "Configure Post-Quantum TLS" (#4575)
wso2/docs-is: en/identity-server/7.0.0/docs/deploy/security/configure-post-quantum-secure-tls.md

# Configure Post-Quantum TLS

> To overcome the quantum threat on traditional cryptographic techniques, WSO2 Identity Server integrates  post-quantum cryptography with the current traditional methods. Specifically, it adopts the [X25519+Kyber](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-tls-westerbaan-xyber768d00/) key agreement algorithm for inbound TLS communications, ensuring robust protection against quantum threats. To configure TLS with post-quantum security, Identity Server has to default to OpenSSL 3.x as the JSSE provider, alongside the [liboqs](https://openquantumsafe.org/liboqs/) library to support post-quantum algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To overcome the quantum threat on traditional cryptographic techniques, WSO2 Identity Server integrates post-quantum cryptography with the current traditional methods. Specifically, it adopts the [X25519+Kyber](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-tls-westerbaan-xyber768d00/) key agreement algorithm for inbound TLS communications, ensuring robust protection against quantum threats. To configure TLS with post-quantum security, WSO2 Identity Server should be configured to utilize OpenSSL 3.x as the JSSE provider, along with [liboqs](https://openquantumsafe.org/liboqs/) library to support post-quantum algorithms.
```

> Post-quantum TLS is **disabled** by default on Identity Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Post-quantum TLS is **disabled** by default on WSO2 Identity Server.
```

!!! note

>     - Post-quantum TLS only works with TLS 1.3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Characteristics of post-quantum TLS  in WSO2 Identity server are as follow:
        - Post-quantum TLS only works with TLS 1.3.
```

>     - Post-quantum secure TLS in Identity Server is currently only supported on Linux and MacOS operating systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Currently, post-quantum secure TLS in WSO2 Identity Server is only supported on Linux and MacOS operating systems.
```

!!! error "important"

>     The artifacts necessary for enabling post quantum secure TLS are not available in Identity Server 7.0.0 by default. If post quantum TLS is required, the artifacts should be manually applied as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The artifacts necessary for enabling post-quantum secure TLS are not available in WSO2 Identity Server 7.0.0 by default. If post-quantum TLS is required, the artifacts should be manually applied.
    To manually apply the the artifacts to WSO2 Identity Server,
```

# Configure Post-Quantum TLS

To overcome the quantum threat on traditional cryptographic techniques, WSO2 Identity Server integrates post-quantum cryptography with the current traditional methods. Specifically, it adopts the [X25519+Kyber](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-tls-westerbaan-xyber768d00/) key agreement algorithm for inbound TLS communications, ensuring robust protection against quantum threats. To configure TLS with post-quantum security, WSO2 Identity Server should be configured to utilize OpenSSL 3.x as the JSSE provider, along with [liboqs](https://openquantumsafe.org/liboqs/) library to support post-quantum algorithms.

Post-quantum TLS is **disabled** by default on WSO2 Identity Server.

!!! note
    Characteristics of post-quantum TLS  in WSO2 Identity server are as follows:
        - Post-quantum TLS only works with TLS 1.3.
        - Currently, post-quantum secure TLS in WSO2 Identity Server is only supported on Linux and MacOS operating systems.

> !!! error "important"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note "important"
```

    - Post-quantum TLS only works with TLS 1.3.
    - Currently, post-quantum secure TLS in WSO2 Identity Server is only supported on Linux and MacOS operating systems.

!!! note "important"
    The artifacts necessary for enabling post-quantum secure TLS are not available in WSO2 Identity Server 7.0.0 by default. If post-quantum TLS is required, the artifacts should be manually applied.
    To manually apply the the artifacts to WSO2 Identity Server,

    - Download [openssl-tls.sh](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wso2/product-is/v7.0.0-openssl-tls/modules/distribution/src/bin/openssl-tls.sh)  and copy the file to `<IS_HOME>/bin/`.
    - Download [wso2server.sh](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wso2/product-is/v7.0.0-openssl-tls/modules/distribution/src/bin/wso2server.sh)  and replace the file in `<IS_HOME>/bin/`.
    - Download [catalina-server.xml.j2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wso2/product-is/v7.0.0-openssl-tls/modules/distribution/src/repository/resources/conf/templates/repository/conf/tomcat/catalina-server.xml.j2)  and replace the file in `<IS_HOME>/repository/resources/conf/templates/repository/conf/tomcat`.

## Build native libraries

> For post-quantum TLS to work, a few native libraries are required. These libraries are not packed with the Identity Server distribution by default as native libraries are system architecture-dependent. Hence, these libraries must be built and installed into your Identity Server distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For post-quantum TLS to work, a few native libraries are required. These libraries are not packed with the WSO2 Identity Server distribution by default as native libraries are system architecture-dependent. Hence, these libraries must be built and installed into your WSO2 Identity Server distribution.
```

The native libraries can be built using one of two methods given below.

### Method 1: Using system libraries for runtime dependencies

In this method, system-level dependencies are utilized for the build-time and runtime, resulting in a faster build time and minimal disk space usage.

#### Build dependencies

The following dependencies are required during build-time.

- Build tools (make, cmake, wget, tar)
- GNU compiler
- APR library
- OpenSSL libraries

!!! note "Important"
    For this method, OpenSSL 3.0 or higher is required as a system library to build the other libraries and for the runtime. 

=== "Linux"

    To install OpenSSL 3.0+, download the [source](https://www.openssl.org/source/) and follow the instructions given [here](https://github.com/openssl/openssl/blob/master/INSTALL.md#quick-installation-guide).

>     Install the other required build dependencies using a command given below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Install the other required build dependencies using the command for your relevant Linux distribution. 
```
